---
id: minutes
title: Team Minutes
sidebar_label: Team Minutes
---

## 18/08/2021

### Present

Sally, Ali, Daniel, Richard Darby

### Minutes

Guest: Richard Darby in Glasgow - they just finished JS2.

#### Action items from last time

* GitHub Actions
  * They landed!
  * Plan is for buddies to only pay attention to coursework if it's late or a trainee reaches out for help.
  * Coursework Tracker team are sprinting at the moment - goal is to notify buddies if coursework is late.
* Chris to Write a brief for the "Add to Google Classroom" button from the Syllabus - rolling over to next week.

#### What do we teach and why?

[Doc being discussed](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Npj5z_KbXVDyz-cIjFF2UJ_c-jK9j9mqU4xlyOYLpuk/edit).

Purpose of doc: Communicating a very top-level strategy for what we teach and why we teach those things, and why we don't teach other things. So that mentors/buddies/teachers/... get a general gist of what we're trying to do, and help us decide whether to include things.

Tried to keep it very brief and concise. Tried to avoid making value judgements because don't want to spend time in fights.

##### State

Sally didn't end up mentioning anything about state.

React [has a bit about state](https://syllabus.codeyourfuture.io/react/week-2/lesson) but it's introducing both the concept of state _and_ how React does it - can we pull the general concept of state earlier in the course to make this easier to handle?

Also, we perhaps aren't setting up our trainees to be able to answer interview questions which require managing state.

##### Next steps

Daniel and Ali to make a few edits, then Sally to publish.

##### Bon code

[Bon Code](https://boncode.nl/) allow uploads of code and static analysis against coding standards. They seem eager for us to try them out.

### Sally's Big Presentation

Core problems:
* Some people who make it to the end of the course aren't equipped to become professional developers, which is what we promise them.
* Making the course shorter for WM.
* Making it easier to deliver the course in high volume in London and WM (but not assuming high volume for other schools).

Objective: Need to be able to track people's aptitudes/progress, in a way that doesn't rely on a volunteer directly assessing them, so that we can communicate progress and options to trainees. Be able to positively reframe "I enjoyed this but struggled with that" as specialisation (e.g. "become a UX designer").

Chris: Could we just raise the level required to get on the course? (May affect whether we're targeting the right people)

Hack Your Future rank their ITC graduates best to worst, interview the top 40, accept 30.

Don't want our key demographic to be pushed out by sharp elbowed and technically eligible. We'd maybe be aiming at the middle of the ranking rather than the top - the top group can probably look after themselves.

Ali: One of the original ideas was to run Fundamentals a lot more regularly, so we could more easily say "Not now" rather than "No". Designed to enable volunteers to say no.

We can talk about exits, but we need to have realistic options at those exits, otherwise we will always end up struggling to say no.

#### Course diversification

Want to create strands of achievements - people go through most of the course together, but at points split off and do different coursework to get practice with different roles in tech.

Preparing people for different roles or focuses while they're still with us, rather than doing it ad-hoc after graduation.

Currently we end up picking up trainees more based on personal connection than by open offerings, and craft course that help them (e.g. cloud - Pedro is teaching a bunch of folks cloud stuff and we ended up with 16 hired)...

There are a lot of agency, WordPress, etc jobs, particularly in Birmingham, we can push people towards which maybe aren't as prestigious as other jobs, but are perfectly fine jobs and which wouldn't require too much extra teaching.

Chris: Are we being too reactive? If we were to plan based on what jobs are available, what would we do? Go from an objective, put together a team of volunteers to put together a course and design something outcome-oriented.

We've split at least two London classes, it's probably the best outcome we could have had with them - we should be open about it and plan for it.

#### Revamping fundamentals

Trying to encompas all of the use-cases all of the different schools have.

London Class 8 starts September 25th and is going to be 66 people going through fundamentals. So unlikely to get revisions in by then. On current track, means 132 1:1 assessments!

West Midlands 4 and 5 will attempt to be two classes running simultaneously.

Manchester and Glasgow will probably be staying as-is.

Everyone agrees that getting together in class and doing the live session is what's super important.

Scotland's experience is that people go from Fundamentals into JS1 and are basically starting from scratch as if they hadn't done Fundamentals.

Original goal of Fundamentals was to get the lowest-achieving trainees up to a place where they can complete the course, without making the course any longer, and treat it like a month-long interview.

WM are going to have to get through Fundamentals in 3 weeks because of funding constraints.

200 hours of interviews (as happened in London for class 8) is unsustainable, particularly if they're too early to get good signal.

Current course is a bit painfully slide-heavy - was originally designed without slides, but PD is hard to teach off the cuff, so slide were born. The experience is also very different in different places with different teachers. Also the style of Fundamentals is hard to do in person.

##### Our new objectives in this new world

* Know what's missing from employability
 * Notice missing or redundant modules
* Make sure module exit criteria map to entry criteria

##### Suggestion

3 live sessions of Fundamentals, 2 self-paced coursework tracks (which could be done over 3 weeks or a longer period). Technical (could drop), and Applied Digital Skills (PD).

In the session, have one technical project:
* Take the home page they already made in ITD.
* Learn what a user story is, and implement one
* Deploy to GitHub pages so it has a URL.

At end of Fundamentals, get badges:
* Have created a CV.
* Have sent a professional email.
* Have created a website that you can show off.

If you achieve all four badges (+ any other qualification criteria), you're on the course.

Move interviews to after Fundamentals - can only do it after getting your four badges.

#### Why do we lose people?

At interviews:
* Not having time to commit
* Really lacking language skills
* Clearly not understanding their code

After Fundamentals or in first few months of course:
* Medical
* Life change, e.g. work shifts change
* People who should realistically have never gotten onto the course but no one had the heart to turn them down

People who are successful in one area tend to be successful in all of them (e.g. turning up to class, doing homework, doing Code Wars, etc). People who miss any tend to miss most.

Hard to evaluate without them actually trying out the course. Which was originally a key motivator to Fundamentals.

##### Badges

Each badge has 3 levels. Host the badges externally somewhere.

Half a badge is creating the learning hours, guided learning hours, total qualification time.

Badges are an established standard we can lean on - integrate with things like LinkedIn.

##### Varying perspectives

CYF had a similar big discussion two years ago around who we're taking and what our objectives are.

Had a lot of push-back from people who have been through the program - for a lot of people, their objectives _weren't_ primarily to get people into jobs. A number of people whose involvement is important have very different views on objectives.

Sally: If we're telling people "Come to Code Your Future so you can get a job in tech", we need to deliver on that, or change our messaging.

For people with low self-confidence, will we end up not pushing them enough? e.g. Will we end up channelling all of the women into more ancillary roles?

##### RainBird

Company who have offered to potentially give us some computing capacity to help with our interviewing/recruiting process.

Their person is going to let Liliana unload all of her thoughts about our interviewing process and see if/how they can help.

### Action items

* Chris to Write a brief for the "Add to Google Classroom" button from the Syllabus - rolling over to next week.
* Ali: What do we teach and why?: Talk about why we don't teach classes
* Daniel: What do we teach and why?: Expand "what we don't teach" a bit - pull out of table
* Daniel: File ticket about pulling state earlier into the course.
* Schedule a session next week so Greg + Mitch can join, and walk through the assorted artifacts.
* Sally: To put together a single doc in one place for folks to give feedback.
* Everyone: Put together feedback on Sally's many produced pieces for next steps for high-level course redesigns, and specifics around badges.

## 04/08/2021

### Present

Sally, Ali, Daniel, Greg, Chris

### Minutes

- Action Points from last meeting
  - Greg, MongoDB Ticket Write Up
    - Push back 1 month
  - Chris, Ticket plan for JS3 Proj
    - Done
  - Chris, Coursework Update thingy
    - Done
- Tender
  - Has been submitted
  - We've aimed to have everything in there be good for CYF
  - Compromise on the length of the course
    - Max was 24 weeks
    - Now the course "officially" starts after JS3
  - Fundamentals convertion to a self-paced course
    - We'd lose 
      - Students get know each other
      - Students getting to know mentors
      - 121 assessments
        - Was originally the core of the idea
      - Team building? Community?
      - CYF getting to know the students e.g. attendence, punctuality
      - The chance to remove people from the course
    - We'd gain
      - Less of an odd gap between Fundamentals and JS1
    - We want to gain
      - "I am a tiny god"
    - Would this become an Intro To Coding 2?
  - HTML/CSS/JS Combination & Reword
    - See Sally for Notes
  - How does JS1 and Fundamentals overlap?
    - Could we make better use of this time?
    - nb: functions - we teach twice and some (lots) of students still don't get it
  - Separate pathways (this money comes from the tender)
    - Cyber - requires money and qulaificiations so may be lower priority
    - Product - currently doing adhoc. 
- Github Actions
  - Seem to be working well!
  - Just need more review on it
  - What happens if we want 
- Classroom API
  - Could we integrate it to the syllabus to automate posting
- Live Code Blocks vs Codesandbox
  - Which do we want?
  - CSB is used in React
  - Leaning towards Codesandbox

### Actions

- Daniel - To do more work on Github Actions work
- Chris - Write a brief for the "Add to Google Classroom" button from the Syllabus

## 2021-07-21

### Present

Ali, Sally, Mitchell, Chris, Greg

### Notes

- Codility
  - Agreed on a few assessments, based on a few that Ali found
  - Waiting on the city coordinators to tell people about it, reduce the surprise
  - Sally got access to their tests repo, has downloaded a copy
    - We can use this as a basis for writing our own tests, and potentially move platforms if wanted
  - Integration with Google Classroom
    - Sally have been in talks with them about a number of things
    - Fairly unlikely
- Crucial stages for giving feedback to trainees
  - End of JS2-1 - end of JS syntax
  - End of JS3 - end of JS in the browser
  - End of React - last point at which we can fork
- Optional coursework
  - Marking optional coursework as "stretch" - Sally did this
  - Identifying most important coursework - this is a job for module gardener
- Testing
  - Discussed in a follow up meeting. Actions:
    - Where are we?
      - Most of js1 and js2 done
      - A few outstanding PRs
    - JS3
      - How do we test the JS3 TV Show DOM Project
      - Filter/Search could be a nice standalone component
      - Can we reduce the amount of duplicated code that student write?
        - Students currently write one massive function
        - DRY?
    - React
      - Jest makes it quite easy to write tests for React
        - JSDom
        - React Testing Library
    - Actions
      - Give the TV Show project more framework so that it can be easier to test (e.g. Separate some business and dom logic)
      - Write Github Action for showing if the tests are passing on a students PRs
      - Write up issue about teaching require/import module dependencies
  - TV show project needs more work, so it's easier to test
  - Should we test React, Node?
    - Need to figure out the testing frameworks etc for this
    - Trainees should probably be writing their own tests?
      - Might need lesson time to teach react-testing-library, etc
      - Possible this could be done in a coursework (written) lesson
  - ITC testing
    - Sally put together a test suite ITC projects: https://codepen.io/sallymcgrath/pen/PommVwg
    - Initial concerns about wall of red, but have some trainees signed up to test. We'll see what happens
      - Assertions could be a bit more descriptive - ideal would be "tried to find X element in the DOM but could not find it"
- Tech interview workshop
  - Ali gave some feedback, positive
    - There's opportunities to talk about take-home tests - but probably can be tweaked to cover this
- Funding source
  - They have changed the terms of the tender
    - Max course length of 24 weeks
    - Minimum of 100 learners
      - Possible to partner with others, but will only do this if we get something out of it
    - Have to be employed within 90 days
  - CYF won't change our core demographic to keep the money
  - Reasons to do this
    - Diversify into cybersecurity & cloud
      - Lots of jobs in ops/IT admin roles - both in big & small companies
      - Understanding of security is important to get these roles
        - Challenges
          - We don't have expertise in this
            - Can buy in a course, but we don't have anyone to deliver it
          - Would have to find more volunteers - can spend some of the money to do this
            - Outreach - going to meetups etc
      - Another cybersecurity bootcamp: https://www.capslock.ac/
      - Potential starting point for cybersecurity knowledge: https://www.cybok.org/knowledgebase/
      - A lot of cloud roles require paid for certs (e.g. AWS, Microsoft)
        - Companies (e.g. Capgemini) may be willing to pay for the cert (after we've trained them up)
    - Possibility of a data science course
      - Challenges
        - Trainees need to be strong in maths
- Github Sponsors
  - Sally signed us up for this
  - Got approved for it today! You can sponsor the syllabus!
- Changes to template repo
  - Chris says there's a way of pushing down changes to the [parent template repo](https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/CYF-Coursework-Template) to all the "child" repos

### Actions

- Greg to write on the [Mongo archive ticket](https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/issues/296) all the things that need to be done
- Chris to ticket the plan for changes to TV show project (and potentially other "free-form project")
- Chris to update the coursework template

## 2021-07-07

### Present
Sally, Chris, Greg, Ali, Daniel, Philip Fol

### Actions:

* Everyone: Take a look at Codility, get a feel, form opinions.
* Chris: Create a Codility test for the end of JS2 Week 1.
* Think about what are our crucial stages for getting feedback on how trainees are doing.
* Sally: Work out how to convey (probably to buddies, maybe more broadly too) that we teach somewhat functional programming, and accordingly don't lean much into things like OOP.
* Sally: Try to re-brand optional coursework exercises. Maybe as "stretch", or maybe just re-designate them as all mandatory.
  * Sally: Also identify for buddles what the most important concept/exercise is the most important each week.
* Chris: Arrange a separate testing-focused meeting. Some agenda items:
  * Module systems.
  * Do we want tests for React + Node + DBs?
  * GitHub Actions to run tests.
* Review [Chris's PR](https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/JavaScript-Core-2-Coursework-Week2/pull/75)
* Take a look at [Daniel's draft tech interview workshop](https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/pull/293)
* Follow up with Codility to see if they can integrate with Google Classroom or similar for sending out assessments to groups.

### Catch-up from last time

* Continue TDD - on-going
* Think about exit criteria

### Membership

Welcome Philip Fol! Matthew will be stepping back for a bit.

### Codility

We're having a partnership with Codility - tech test platform (we're pretty sure they're giving it to us for free).

Codility is a system for screening out people who can't code. Target is filtering away the people who can't code from thousands of candidates. That isn't exactly our aim.

Had a sales call - Sally has a recording if anyone's interested, but it's just a tour of the interface.

We got a bunch of trainees to do an "HTML Exit" test as an example.

Tracks time spent, requirements completeness. Can replay their test-taking step by step - mostly not needed, but can dig in when things go wrong.

They have an API for exporting details if we need.

Copying and pasting is allowed and works fine.

#### Positives

* They have an API
* They produce stats at scale
* Can get a good at-a-glance view of how trainees are doing
* Flexible on the backend, e.g. we could allow re-attempts, give more time, etc.

#### Downsides

* Making a test depends on their pre-canned tests (split up by role) and/or libraries to build them up.
* Most of the pre-canned stuff is probably better targeted at graduates than people during the course.
* Blunt tool. Need to work out how to make it work for us and how to not just be more work for us.
* Quality of pre-canned tests - Sally looked at 3 HTML tests - one 5-minute was set as a 40-minute test, one was fine, and one was just incorrect in its expectations.
* Vendor lock-in.
* The exercise taker can't write their own tests - can only run the pre-supplied ones.
* There's no versioning in the tests.

#### How do you invite them to a challenge?

Manually by email in the interface, or by API. Can also create public links but they're anonymous - struggle to track and get cohort information from it.

We could maybe ask them to integrate better with e.g. Google Classroom, but unlikely to get much traction.

#### What are our concerns RE false positives/negatives

Much more likely people will fail when they should pass than pass when they should fail.

Trainees could plausibly cheat pretty easily if they wanted to.

#### What stages would we use this for?

End of module assessments. Possibly entry criteria assessment for modules too.

Have an intense desire from cities to be able to see at a glance who needs extra support which isn't a large complicated spreadsheet. Also a desire to not spend so much time doing rote marking and automate that as much as possible.

Goal is to de-emphasise time spent marking coursework - push the trainees to own their coursework experience, and rely on more formal/structured assessments for progress tracking.

#### Concerns

* Vendor lock-in (Sally also has an account with https://www.qualified.io/ now)
* Watch how much time we sink into the proof of concept.
* How to introduce tests - if we spring them on people it's surprising, if we warn them in advance it's daunting.

#### How are tests written?

Three styles - kata-style, multiple choice, long-form written answer, and whiteboard coding style.

#### Do we want to tell the trainees their results?

Lots of down-sides to doing so:
* For trainees lacking confidence getting a poor score even though they've done pretty well can knock confidence.
* For trainees struggling, if they score really highly but it's not representative, that's a very hard conversation.

#### Next steps

* Syllabus: Take a look, get a feel, form opinions. Maybe do this with a 15-minute in-class experience to avoid a large lead-time.
* Work out our crucial stages for getting feedback on how trainees are doing.

### Cohorts 

Many people have been thinking in different ways about how we deal with the tension between having a cohort which forms a community, and being flexible around how long individuals take to learn things and advance.

### On-boarding volunteers and buddies

Want to decentralise this a bit - make it less Sally's job and more each city's coordinator.

### Differentiating factors between our trainees

Very clear that the trainees who don't do the optional exercises don't do well.

Part of that is probably because we don't communicate how to get support well enough.

Why don't we set all of our exercises as mandatory? Maybe we should...

We don't have a great story for how to catch people up when they're behind.

We need to make the modules more modular, and make better off-ramps.

We also need to work out how to bring the product people more into the fold of the syllabus - this is a big thorny problem!

## 9/6/21

### Present
Chris, Ben, Mitchell, Sally, Greg

Welcome to Ben

### Actions:

- check in notes from last time and followup on any actions
- @Chris to write up why students are struggling
- @all create issue to tell them "do codewars" in the syllabus
- Raise wider discussion of modularisation - how far do we want to take the concept.
- @Greg bring up teaching unit testing for Glasgow
- @Chris invite Kerim and Craig 

### Unit testing

- Mitchell getting PR ready for unit testing

### Proposed renaming/refocusing of Javascript

- Sally - maybe should focus more on modularisation so that we can teach (inside module and across module) in whatever order
- Mitchell - should we make explicit the dependencies/place other things earlier
- (side discussion on scope: would like to bring it in early, groundwork can be laid in css)
- Sally: could have teams that are module focused to "garden" the individual modules
  - syllabus team should figure out how to support people in doing this
- Greg: As well as dependencies: document reasoning 
  - Sally: would also be good to have better communciation/collaboration between modules
- Ben: at school of code, similar issues - making things reorderable
- Greg: concern that "Basics of Javascript" makes it a dumping ground for everything that is conceptually "basic", even if we could delay teaching it

### Boxtribute work-study internship

- Chris has already pushed back on the technology list
- Originally they wanted to set up a code school and Chris encouraged them to pay interns instead
- Could we get clarification on how they intend to support students in the self-study
- Some companies that offer similar programmes also pay a living wage
- CYF probably shouldn’t be encouraging students to take positions that are poorly remunerated

### Codewars

- Sally has created a cyf collection https://www.codewars.com/users/CodeYourFuture/authored_collections 
- Graduates who are struggling have not been doing the suggested work
- Very little mandatory code katas in the curriculum
- Sally: by JS3, everyone should have level 6 (means completing 20 entry-level kata)
- Could we introduce the principle of the a daily standup to be done by a slackbot
 - posting in the void might feel unfun (and seeing that other people don’t do it, so I don’t have to)
- Would be good to demo that as part of the weekly class
- Target 300 so that you can make your own kata (careful to not have them reviewed as trivial katas get ripped to shreds)
- Kata: have some katas to deliberately revisit

### Node re-ordering discussion thread

- should have that conversation

### 3blue1brown

- Mathematical animation engine
- would be really cool to have something similar based on coding

### Stratification in groups

- should we find out the pros and cons? is it something to formalise?
- more driven by necessity in London

## 26/05/2021
Attendance: Chris, Daniel, Greg, Mitch, Sally, Ali, Matt

### Actions from Last Time

- Daniel to put JS1 convert tests - done
- Mitch write short npm intro 
- Sally to teach HTML module - Currently doing, made contact with Lucy in London, had same points as Sally
- Chris to fix bug - Daniel has fixed bug
- Promises, greg to explain more in JS3 - Chris has made a thread, no discussions made so far

### Agenda Points

- Ali’s syllabus link - Chris has fixed this already, could probably close all the tickets on it
- Chris, non-mathsy codewars exercises - think that the codewars katas are good, not sure about including them within the syllabus or not, can make collections of katas by modules, collections are tied to an account but we can create a CYF account on codewars for this, need to be careful about adding more marking. Chris to add them in as optional coursework. 
- Hotel App - Could get more peer-review marking involved with optional challenges of react.
- HTML/CSS Sally - Spent a lot of time defining terms. Could potentially be useful to add a glossary in for terms they are to cover on specific modules. Potential issue that if we create a glossary there is an assumption there that because its written down it doesn’t need to be taught. Flatiron html coursework was good but UI of website horrendous and very confusing for the students. Potential option to teach grid first, made teaching box difficult. Sally has made a set of notes, will feedback after finishing teaching. Potential issues surrounding semantic html, lack of understanding of when to use div tags and when not. Live debugging using dev tools was really good.

### Jest

- Are we requiring test or accepting globally
- Are we going to run the tests through github actions? - issue that students might then only practice tests when they submit to git rather than testing locally
- Just having pure pass fail might be useful for markers
- Mitch happy to add a guide for CI output interpretation
- We shouldn’t hide the logs for the students
- No intention at this point to get the students to write the tests, it’s more about interpretation at this stage
- First use case going to be NW4 in about two weeks

### Github Actions

- Github actions to automatically close issues
- List of github actions - https://github.com/sdras/awesome-actions
- Action used - https://github.com/JulienKode/team-labeler-action

### Sprint Planning 

- JS Core 1 Assessment - Matt to look at Chris’s comments
- JS Core 1 Challenges - Added back into ready for development 
- React Week 2 - Ali still to work on this
- Add Pre-Work for HTML/CSS - Chris assigned himself
- Use uuids instead of ids for albumsData - Chris assigned himself
- Get jest merged this week
- Everybody to review the PR’s 

## 12/05/2021
Attendance: Chris, Daniel, Greg, Mitch, Sally
### Agenda
- Tech test
- TDD first steps
- HTML/CSS content discussion
- Trailing slash
- Promises
- Report from new Git lesson
### Important Points raised
- New person is joining team soon, hurray
- Chris is eating amazingly vile sounding KFC flavoured crisps
#### We reviewed a tech test
- Action: Chris to raise an issue to write up a tech test for our trainees.
#### TDD: Jest
We met with people from tech projects last week and agreed to use Jest.
- Action: Daniel to put Jest in JS-1 and convert tests
- Action: Mitch to write Jest overview
- Action: Mitch to write short npm intro for JS-1 and update pre-reqs before NW4 start JS-1
#### HTML/CSS module
Sally links presentation on the DOM for HTML W1. Lots of work being done separately across cities. Can we combine our efforts?
- Action: Sally to teach through module and identify missing pieces
- Action: Sally to get marking guide/s from Lucy into the repo
#### Trailing slash
Trailing slash bug has been raised as top 10 things to fix. Please can a Javascript person take a look?
- Action: Chris to raise an issue
#### Promises
Greg asks can we find a place in [JS-3] to explain promises. Daniel asks should we teach anything other than async await.
- Action: Chris to raise a discussion point on this
#### New git
Mitch reports from teaching new git material. A success!

## 28/04/2021 
Missing notes 😢

## 14/04/2021

- Sally opened a PR for JS1 marking guide
  - Discovered an issue with student understanding of `true`/`false`
  - Predicates exercise
    - Any code will pass the test
    - Opened a ticket: https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/issues/233
    - Action: fix this test
  - Daniel: last time he sat in on this, students didn't know what an expression was
    - This should be addressed with Mitch's changes to JS1
  - Daniel also found another example of a bad test: https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/issues/230
    - Action: fix this too
- Fundamentals
  - Why Processing.js?
    - Fast to get something tangible
      - It's difficult with vanilla JS to make something "fun" (i.e. not printing text to a terminal). Processing makes it easy to code something interesting quickly
      - Trade-off: Processing is "magical", and KA is particularly weird about it
    - "Flipped classroom": sessions at the weekend were to unstick students, not necessarily to introduce new concepts
      - Hence need for a good online course
  - There's a lack of documentation describing the above
    - Action: Sally to do write this up
  - Fundamentals was also originally designed to be a "taster session" for programming, as well as an intro to JS
    - Wouldn't need lots of volunteer time on at the weekend, so online course is ideal
    - Could be run much more regularly during the year
- React assessment
  - PR to assessment: https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/React-Assessment/pull/1
  - Action: Ali will likely merge soon. but feel free to leave comments if you'd like
- TDD
  - Came up in context of exercises with `require('assert')`: https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/issues/169
  - We remembered that Chris was going to update us about this
  - Action: Chris update us about this

## 31/04/2021

Missing notes 😢

## 17/03/2021

Attendance: Ali, Chris, Daniel, Greg, Matthew, Sally

### Agenda

- Location for solutions to in-class exercises
- new Choose Your Own Adventure exercise for JS3 W1
- should we add a section about paths in JS?
- MongoDB

### Glasgow forking fundamentals

Chris: Following up on our Scotland meeting - we are forking the repo and we would like them to raise issues and get their improvements feeding back in. Hopefully I'll invite them to come to these things again to have more of those kind of discussion.

### Class exercises

Daniel: Antigone put together solutions for class exercises. How and where should we maintain these solutions? Chris suggests tabs. Sally suggests passwords.

#### Action items:

- now: put the solutions in tabs
- future: produce a react component to lock the solutions in future and provide the password after the appropriate lesson

### CYA coursework

Ali: Everyone is happy. Ticket merged. Done!

### Terminal lesson and Cowsay

https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/pull/189
https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/pull/166#issuecomment-770410775
Discussion: Should we learn paths earlier on? They are not a react concept. If we teach it too early they won't retain it. We won't do paths earlier, but we will do them more in JS3. Possibly put cowsay into JS3 and require a bunch of stuff?

Ali: I wonder if we could actually take pretty much that entire coursework and turn it into a lesson in the end of js3. Chris: This one I think we definitely need an issue for it and it is gonna be a slightly longer running piece of work.

#### Action items:

- Write a paths cheat sheet, SOMEONE? Ali?
- Dropped thread: cowsay lesson/expansion - Sally will chase this up

### General discussion about iterating and increasing complexity in exercises.

Would it be interesting or annoying to recap some of the exercises from js1? But with objects, eg the transport one, which is, how can you get with different means of Transport between two cities? Just give them exactly the same exercise, but put the data in objects?

#### Action item:

Repeat some exercises from week 1 but this time with objects instead of arrays. Sally to make issue.

#### Action items:

- Redo TV show project in React (with call back to earlier project)
- Chris to contact Neil Bogie

### MongoDB

https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/discussions/192

- Glasgow school got on well with Postgres
- He proposes to write out a list of all the things he plans to do so it can be reviewed
- Hopes to have this ready in 3 months
- Discussion about mongoDB vs Postgres -

#### Action item:

Chris to speak to London teachers and see what they want to teach this year PostGres/Mongo

### Assessments

https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/JavaScript-Core-2-Assessment/blob/main/scrabble.md

Snapshot assessment at JS2 proved very useful. Teachers want it for JS1 JS3, and React.
The marking guide is the key part needed here.

Action items:

- Daniel will work on JS3, Matthew will work on JS1. Two assessments of 15 mins each, with a rubric to guide marking.
- Ali wrote an assessment for React, an open book assesment. Find it, update it, and add it.

### Homework marking guide

We want to write marking guides for buddies. Each coursework should have one. It should cover: the object of the coursework, key points to look for, common mistakes, and how to respond.

#### Action items:

- Chris is working on this.
- Sally will review student submissions and find more patterns.

## 03/03/2021

Attendance: Daniel, Chris, Anthony, Sally, Greg, Matthew, Mariana, Kevin, Irina, Alastair

### Agenda

- Icebreaker (5 minutes)
- Actions from last meeting (10 minutes)
- Agenda Points (~30 minutes)
- Sprint Planning (~30 minutes)
- Fundamentals discussion
- Are Github discussions worth it ?

### Work In Progress

- Functions-expressions PR now merged
- Cowsay currently in progress courtesy of Sally
- How to ask a good question
- Chain of commits diagram
- Encouraging live coding
- Coursework solutions

### Fundamentals discussion

- Do we have established way for PD mentors to edit the syllabus ?
- Fundamentals on GitBook - people can edit directly on there
- PD changes should be run through Candy
- Significant changes to the course by Aprill, need an easy to way to make changes for Scotland
- Need to ensure not confusing for students which parts of the syllabus they need
- What are the fundamental differences for Scotland ?
  - Much looser in Scotland
  - Not about assessment
  - More about a period of adjustment for students in Scotland
  - Use some of the ideas but not everything
  - E.g. A lot of PD tasks like giving presentations in the first week so very demanding
  - A lot of people not fully comfortable with their computer setup before starting the full course
- Currently framed as an assessment period
- Softer exit if students are told they can't continue after the fundamentals section - better than asking students to stop continuing after JS-week-2
- More an assessment of intent ( truly gauge if they're prepared to work for 20 hours or so )
- Fundamentals course shouldn't be ability based - should be just a way of assessing attitude
- Maybe update wording as students may find the wording scary "If you don't do X then you may have to leave the course"
- Harder to pick on people who are having difficulties with the course whilst working online
- Confused whether we take 100 for fundamentals and then go down to 30 for the Full Stack
- Change to fundamentals may be beneficial across the different cities ( Daniel )
- Some people put on to the course as maybe ( in Manchester ) so assumed that some people are not going to make it on to the full stack bootcamp
- Could take up to 2 months to know for sure if a student can make it through the course ( Irina )
- Normally about 3/4 people towards the end of the course that are struggling with the course
- May need a definition of the ideal student at Code Your Future i.e. do they have previous experience etc.
- Generally positive about Kahn Academy - but some confusion over whether this is how you build websites
- May need taught material for the Fundamentals section of the course

## Actions

- Re-structure PD elements and language used in the Fundamentals section
- Raising issues for the Fundamentals repository

## 17/02/2021

Attendance: Daniel, Chris, Sally, Matthew, Ali, Greg

### Welcome new members

- Matthew
- Sally

### Updating the intro to coding course (/application process) (Chris)

- No need to get involved, just being generally aware that this is happening.
- Feedback comes from recent graduates/joiners
- Tech side: easy for students to pass by just following steps (/googling freecodecamp tribute page)
- Soft skills side: intro to coding course should represent the soft skills, so that it's a good "sample" of what students can expect

- Improving the tech skills
  - raise the upper level of how well students can do, by making a "challenge" approach.
- Questions
  - Should actual coding be part of intro to coding?
  - Are the cutoffs during the acceptance process in line with what they've learned and with what we're able to assess? (end of js1)
  - Could having some sass add coding fundamentals/some other version of programmatic thinking?
  - Long term intention of the fundamentals course was not really to do what we're doing.

Action for Chris -> discussion of what is taught in fundamentals course (e.g sass)

### What kinds of tech interviews do our students end up doing and what skills should they be practiced in going in (Chris)

- Cap Gemini put a lot of soft skills to the front (even rejected some strong coders from Birmingham)
- Got feedback from Cap Gemini hiring manager:
  - students did worst at selling their technical skills
  - very good at talking about their own experiences
  - very good at self directed learning
  - enthusiastic about learning new things
  - students tend to pigeon hole themselves (e.g. backend vs frontend)
  - students don't have confidence that they could learn a new language/take their learning and re-produce it.
- Question: does the final project affect students confidence in a negative way that we might want to address?
  - Would it be a good time to invite recent graduates?
  - Yes, it's quite common for students to fill low in confidence
  - Lack of having things on github

Action for Chris -> speak to German about who we're designing the syllabus for (who are the hirers, what skills are they asking for)
Action for Chris -> chase up city coordinators to fill in the outcomes spreadsheet

### JS Core 2 exercises (Ali)

- Choose your own adventure
  - Goal: Getting students used to the existence of objects
  - Concern: it's a bit different from what we've done in the class?
  - Comment: a bit like an internal DSL

Action for Chris: Get a Gist from Ali and give it to some students.

- Suits of cards
  - More standard
  - Can we make it more difficult/complex (Ali: assertions become tricky)

### Git branch (Daniel)

- Seeking feedback
- Planning to record feedback?

- Git bracken?
- Git prettyfier? (could then use asciicinema)

### Sprint planning (Chris)

- Git ticket almost ready
- introducing funtions, ready for review
- js excercises 2

New tickets

- Encouraging live coding?
- Cowsay? Sally could pick up
- Git diagrams? Daniel
- How to ask a good question -> maybe good for Atanas

Action for Chris, approach people about pairing up with Greg to get started on Mongo

## 03/02/2021

Present: Chris, Ali, Daniel, Mitch, Greg

### Interview Prep Workshop

- Ali & Daniel got chatting on PR about interview prep
- What kind of companies are we targeting for trainees?
  - "Upper bound" of companies
  - Type of company
- There are several kinds of tech interview
- Do we prepare trainees for all types of interview?
- Discussion of specific example of `LazyFlatIterator`
  - Problem is very abstract, which we think would throw a lot of trainees
- Is it realistic to expect trainees to get jobs at FAANG/top companies?
  - We think the majority of student's wouldn't pass the interview
  - Self-fulfilling strategy - if we prepared trainees for this, would they get it?
- We could prepare for what kind of things a tech interview, but without looking at specific kinds of problems (e.g. computer science-y problems)
  - E.g. explain thinking out loud
  - Think about performance of solutions
- Potentially involve Anahita - London PD
  - Tech recruiter for Capgemini
  - Has expressed interest in developing content in this domain
- Daniel opened a [ticket to discuss a workshop](https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/issues/175)
- Action points
  - Chris to speak to Capgemini
  - Chris to decide what types of companies we are aiming for
  - Syllabus team to read ticket & discuss

### When do we release solutions to coursework?

- London were releasing the week after
  - Concern is that they could put in minimal effort to solve, then get solution without putting work in
- Releasing answers helps buddies since the answers are available, but it also means enforcing putting in effort
- Trainee who is putting in effort, but sees answers then thinks that they understand it, but without actually
- Suggestion
  - Release by default
  - But if Edu Buddy notices that trainee is coasting, the it can be flagged to City Coordinator
  - Can then restrict that trainee from getting the answers (by not inviting them to the private answers repo)
- Action points
  - Chris to write this up as policy for Edu buddies

### Team changes

- Tim taking some time off (too much going on)
- Few new people joining in the next few weeks

### Git CLI/Terminal

- Terminal lesson went out to London students
  - 12 students completed. No problems, but they are likely best students, so waiting to see how it goes for other students
- Git
  - Daniel working on it, roughly ready to go
  - PRs incoming
  - Diagrams are still TODO

## 20/01/2021

Present: Chris, Bukola, Mitch, Ali, Daniel, Greg, Lucy

### HTML & CSS discussion - led by Lucy

- Atannas has raised several questions regarding the syllabus
- Syllabus doesn't currently start from scratch with HTML & CSS
- Always have disparate level of abilities and knowledge with any class

#### Week 1

- Lucy's learning objectives:
  - Week-1
  - Starts with a summary of the learning objectives
  - How to attach CSS to a HTML document
  - Discuss CSS specificity
  - Write simple HTML and CSS pairings
  - Discuss the box model in CSS
- Avoid git issues and sandboxes
- Lots of interactive exercises throughout the lesson
- For homework build a website using some Figma designs
- Trainees can find extension tasks at Frontend Mentor
- Currently still using the bikes for refugees project over the HTML and CSS section
- Lucy is using smaller layout exercises for this section
- Try and get students to fork and clone the homework before the end of the class

#### Week 2

- Week 2 deals with responsive design, media queries
- Homework for week 2 is to add a media query to existing Karma Project for a mobile design
- More sandbox activities for manipulating the UI with media queries
- Trainees given a wireframe for a cake website with a mobile view and a desktop view

#### Week 3

- Start with a lot of repetitive stuff in CSS
- Introduce the need for classes in order to reuse CSS rules
- Then introduce a CSS framework like Bootstrap - there to solve the problem of consistency
- Give students some understanding of columns
- Issues with Bootstrap:
  - Comes with clutter like utility CSS etc
  - Also comes with a lot of JS components
  - Can sometimes be a little chaotic
  - Sometimes distracted by Bootstrap features
- Lucy has made a separate CSS framework "Simple Grid" for Code Your Future - just for columns ( no JS components and grid etc )
- Downside is that Bootstrap has loads of documentation and examples online so maybe more difficult for students to figure stuff out
- Homework for week 3 used Wix templates in the past - needs to change for copyright reaons

- May need an additional 4th class
- Syllabus is opinionated - but with flexibility built into it so people can choose to teach something in particular should they choose to do so
- Potentially focus on Bootstrap but if you want to use "Simple Grid" then you can if you want
- Syllabus there to define which concepts need to be understood and which skills need to be acquired but not to prescribe the particular resources used to achieve the skills / resources

### Cloud development - led by Bukola

- Would like to introduce cloud development in the syllabus at some point
- Could introduce deployment / automation especially when students encounter Netlify and there is a need for deployment
- Github CLI is a good starting point for this
- Make use of Bukola's notes for this topic
- Good turn this into an optional workshop
- Cloud infrastructure is the number one skill employers are after
- We could also have a postgraduate module for teaching students stuff after the course ( post graduation )
- Could introduce bonus material from early on so that the students are primed for the introduction of cloud stuff later on
- Is there scope for something like Lambda functions around the time of React to bridge with NodeJS
- Netlify uses a CLI tool for deployment of cloud functions

### Further actions

- Setup a future discussion further down the line re cloud workshop / module
- Establish learning objectives for a cloud workshop / module
- Setup a cyf-syllabus-cloud channel

---

## 06/01/2021

**In Attendance:** Daniel, Chris, Greg, Tim, Mitch, Ali

### Personal Development Syllabus

- https://personaldevelopment.codeyourfuture.io/
- Technical Interview might be missing
  - Can this be rolled into the PD Syllabus?
- Could we add more time CV Workshops
- "Asking Good Questions" is a section that could be pulled out earlier and more in depth
  - Has been included in Day 3 so can be pushed more around
- We should be aiming to interleave the content between the two Syllabus'
- "Imposter Syndrome" could be covered
  - You're not **meant** to understand everything

Action: All Attendees - To review the content in more details

### UseContext Discussion

- Greg recently learnt React to help TA a class
  - He discovered UseContext that could be used in place of Redux
- Ali - We can use the "Extra Lessons" to contain this
- Ali - We've always **not** included it as part of the course as it isn't required for most of what the students are trying to do
- Could this be included into the Post Graduate section of the course?

Action: Greg to investigate how they could be implemented and included

### Instructional Design Class

- Greg used to work in this area and knows people who want "clients" to work with
- Might be able to help us craft a pedagogically good workshop or help with HTML/CSS Module

Action: Greg to refer them to me

### Round Table

- Chris to prepare a plan for a Round Table discussion with lots of different stack holders of the

Action: Chris to write up plan and poll for the best time for the Round Table

### Lucy and HTML/CSS

- Lucy Zidour is an experience CYF Teacher from London who has historically taught HTML/CSS
- She has good tested material that could do with being folded into the Syllabus
- Lucy will attend our next meeting to discuss

### Git & Terminal

- As part of a roll-out of a better way to teach Git we need to start thinking about how to teach further Git Theory and the Terminal in preparation for React
- We should start working on this soon

Action: Chris to prepare meeting on this for next week

## 09/12/2020

**In Attendance**: Chris Owen, Ali Smith, Mitchell Lloyd, Tim Hamrouge

### Functions

[Minutes from the call on 7th Dec](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19F9GAR09wP9CwomDp6Y4rYwfBMNnnZgrirHd-8k4uiM/edit#).

Chris overall happy with it. Flagged that the coursework needing to be checked that trainees don't see content out-of-order.

Also had discussion of timings of lesson 1. Concern about fitting in good naming content, but pointed out that this can be covered in variables section earlier. Assigned some rough timings for AM/PM content in week 1.

Next steps:

- Suggested that start learning objectives first
- Then write exercises that fulfill the LOs
- And then fill out content

### Code style guide

Ali has started writing it up, but not lots of progress yet.

### JS Core 2 Exercises

Tim demoed some of the exercises so far. Progress looks good.

### Typing tips/test for Intro to Coding

Ali wrote up a [quick guide](https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/Intro-To-Coding-Course/pull/2), but wasn't sure what to do with it. Decided to write up a ticket for the board for Syllabus Team to discuss how to integrate into ItC.

## 25/11/2020

**In Attendance**: Ali Smith, Chris Owen, Daniel Wagner-Hall, Greg Dyke, Tim Hamrouge

### Style guide

Discussing https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/issues/105#issuecomment-731769854

General consensus supporting Ali's comment.
Important that learners understand the why (e.g. around indentation and naming), and in what Prettier does (particular that Prettier will reformat things to avoid surprising changes), less important to understand things like "how many spaces are correct".
We should make sure TAs (particularly when marking homework) know what to expect, and what things are worth highlighting in review.
We should also consider what things we encourage all volunteers (particularly teachers & TAs) to do, e.g. should we try to get people to always add semicolons after statements?
We should make sure to proactively re-format homework before setting it, so that they don't submit huge whitespace diffs.

For React and beyond: Rely on default ESLint that comes from create-react-app.

We've had incidents in the Backend/Mongo course where client-side and server-side code were using different formatters with different spaces, which caused some issues. We should unify where they conflict.

Best practices docs: We should have some. Should probably set reading these as homework, rather than in-course, and will also be useful to be able to link to from PRs.

Try to avoid per-module advice in this doc - we should create per-module cheatsheets/similar where they're needed, but don't want to glom it all into one doc. These could also be useful to get teachers for later modules familiar with conventions that were taught in earlier modules (e.g. how much do we care about `==` vs `===` of `if (blah)` vs `if (blah === undefined)`).

Can easily get ESLint installed into VS Code, but ESLint rules are harder because they're generally installed as npm packages. Could maybe bundle them in our own extension if we wanted. .eslint files in the CYF-Coursework-Template could fill this niche.

Ali will move forwards.

### How we teach functions

No one seems to teach functions well.

Coding Train does a good job because he makes a distinction between functions that do things, and functions that return data, but we can't use it directly because it uses p5.js which is very specific. Covering functions which both return things and have side-effects is maybe important too.

Everyone treats "and you can store the result in a variable" as obvious. Haven't really seen how to teach "some returned value are ignored" much either.

How/when do we teach expressions? Week 2 of JS1 (functions are Week 1 of JS) - students have typically struggled with this.

Learners often struggle with map vs forEach. We struggled when we moved away from `for` loops, have moved a bit closer to `for` to help the learners understand the basics, but still need to cover `map` et al by the time we get to React.

Our examples aren't places where functions aren't actually useful (e.g. a `sum` function) - hopefully we can reframe into something more realistic as a motivating example.

Mitch is probably going to be away for a bit, so Chris will take it over and start gathering opinions this sprint.

### This sprint

#### [SQL](https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/pull/139)

Pretty much everyone except London teaches MongoDB. Glasgow and Manchester have some SQL experts, and Birmingham fell through some cracks of undocumented prep work from having not run the course before.

Why does ~everyone teach SQL except London?

> Partially because of domain knowledge in the particular cities.
> Partially lack of clarity around what's more valuable to focus on.

Birmingham want to move from Postgres to MySQL. We should work out what to support...
We should find out why Birmingham want to switch. It may be because they had a bad experience from the first class, but we should find out for sure.
Maybe we could just have them connect to pre-running SQL servers, and not need to worry about which flavour of SQL they're using.
For Mongo, we don't have them run anything locally, just use a hosted MongoDB.

#### [JS2-2 coursework](https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/syllabus/issues/120)

When we introduce the DOM, there's not much homework. Could do with someone reading over it and evaluate whether the coursework meets the learning objectives. The jump after this week is to a big project.

Tim will pick up.

### AOB

Chris is taking most of December off (enjoy!). Will still check in to the meeting on December 9th, but won't be picking up work.

We should do an idea generation session, with many attendees, to work out what else folks would like the syllabus team to prioritise, to fill in a backlog.

---

## 28/10/2020

**In Attendance**: Ali Smith, Chris Owen, Daniel Wagner-Hall, Tim Hamrouge, Carlos from Migracode

### CARLOS FROM MIGRACODE

Welcome to Carlos from Migracode who use our syllabus for their course in Spain.

- Carlos answered questions and gave some insight into Migracode.
  - Migracode have been around for 1 year. They were using our syllabus from then to teach with until April when Carlos started updating their syllabus with our new content.
  - Migracode began with one class, then another two in March and started three more in July. The classes consist of ~12 people.
  - The feedback from Spain is that our syllabus is great because of how up to date it is - particularly the content on React hooks.
  - They have split their classes out into smaller groups to enable them to give students more attention. They also have 1 Spanish class and 1 English class because a lot fo their students are from South America, but they do not translate the syllabus, the teacher does that while teaching.
  - They offer free English lessons to students. They are able to do this by using trainee teachers who can use the teaching time as credit for their courses.

### GIT LESSON

- Chris thanked all those who had worked on the content for the Git lesson.
  - Chris introduced the lesson content to the Birmingham team and it was well received, the lesson will be run by them for the first time on 31/10/20.

### AOB

- Chris needs some eyes on some PRs. Tim said he would take a look.
- Ali asked for some resources on 'How to ask good questions' and 'How to give good answers'. Ali will write a ticket for this.

---

## 14/10/2020

**In Attendance**: Ali Smith, Chris Owen, Greg Dyke, Daniel Wagner-Hall, Tim Hamrouge, Neill Bogie, Mike Hayden,

### GIT & COMMAND LINE V. GITHUB DESKTOP

Discussion around wether to teach GIT & COMMAND LINE (G&CL) or GITHUB DESKTOP (GHD)

- No final decision was made in the meeting about which technology should be taught.
  - It was agreed that in order to teach anything with Git comprehensively, more teachning time would be needed. Chris said that the 2 hours used to teach the topic could be spread out to 4.
  - There much discussion about multiple lessons on Git, in order to reduce the cognitive load and increase familiarity for stuents. Chris said that while additional lessons cannot be added, additional reources (as homework etc.) can be included.
  - Daniel and Ali agreed to work on the Git lesson plan for 31/10/2020.

### STUDENT FEEDBACK FORM

- Chris has created a Pull Request for a new feedback form to give to students at the end of lessons.
  - There was consensus that the form was a good idea, and would be added to the syllabus. It is a substantial change because it will affect all lessons.
  - Ali suggested an additional 'Anything Else?' field to capture intangible feedback, Chris Agreed.
  - Neill pointed out it must be made clear to students who can see their answers and how they will be used, all agreed.
- ACTION: Chris to check form feedback in 1 month.

---
